---
layout: post
title:  "Day 18: Spotipy, Part 2"
color:  teal
width:   12
height:  1
date:   2017-09-15 23:59:00 -0700
categories: python
---

<br>

For Day 18, I'm happy to report that the first iteration of my "Spotipy" project
  is live!

<br>

Yesterday, I got everything set up, including a simple test script that could
  add a hardcoded track to a playlist. Today, I wrote a script that implements logic
  to dynamically maintain a playlist of my 100 most-recent Spotify plays.

<br>

In addition to the logic that actually adds and removes songs from the playlist, I wanted
  to limit the inclusion of tracks such that only _one_ song from a given album would
  be in the playlist at a given time. I tend to listen to music by listening to entire albums top to bottom,
  but I would rather my "Recently Played" playlist represent the diverse set of artists
  on my radar, rather than simply including my true 100 most recent plays.

<br>

Once I got the script working as intended, I deployed it to Heroku, configured the
  Heroku app with the correct environment variables, added a scheduler to run the python script every 10 minutes, and set it loose!

<br>

The playlist is public, so what you see below is a simple embed of the playlist that will update as
  the playlist does. In the future, I want to do something cooler as a view — I
  noticed that the Spotify API responses include a link to the album artwork of a
  given track object, so it could be cool to render a dynamic mosaic of all the albums
  included in the playlist.

<br>

The repo with the code for this project can be found here: [https://github.com/grahamplace/spotify](https://github.com/grahamplace/spotify)

<br>

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/user/g.place/playlist/4XW1C9qdMjf0xbEsL1r7Zy" width="100%" height="750" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true"></iframe>
