---
layout: post
title:  "Day 13: /now and Embedding Spotify Recent Listens"
color:  blue
width:   12
height:  1
date:   2017-09-10 20:04:00 -0700
categories: html http
---

<br>

A while back, I saw someone tweet about a new feature they had added to their
  personal website: a /now page that showed what they were reading, working on, etc.

<br>

I loved the idea, and always wanted to make my own. Music is a hobby of mine, and
  something that I'm incredibly passionate about, so when thinking about what
  defines me at any given "now," I can't leave out the music that I'm listening to.

<br>

With that in mind, I wanted to explore the possibility of a dynamic display of my
  ~5 most recently played songs or artists on Spotify (my streaming service of choice).
  That way, on any given page load of [http://www.graham.place/now](http://www.graham.place/),
  a visitor could see and hopefully even hear what music is currently on my radar.

<br>

Today was mostly spent exploring the Spotify API and figuring out how to get through
  its authorization flow such that I ended up with a token to send when requesting the
  recent plays of my user object. This meant I didn't ship a ton of code today — I essentially
  just added a quick repo to use as a sandbox for this idea, and figured out how to embed
  the Spotify player of a given track id onto an HTML page.

<br>

I got the embedded player working, and I worked through the API until I ended up with a
  JSON hash containing my 50 most recently played tracks! There are two problems left to solve:

1) Keeping the authorization fresh — the token issued by Spotify that you use to request
  a user's recent plays expires after 60 minutes. There is a way to refresh it, so I'll
  need to dig into how I can basically never let that expire — I want visitors to the site
  to be able to see my Spotify data without needing to go through any authorization flow.

2) Displaying the data — once I have the track ids of my recently played songs, how do
  I display that nicely on the page? The Spotify embeddable player looks great, but I'll need
  to write some sort of responsive wrapper to put around them.

<br>

Those are problems for another day! For now, I'll leave you with some music I'm currently listening to:

<br>

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/2svtFCYzf2ybG4aLVNMWxr" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true"></iframe>
