---
layout: post
title:  "Day 3: Portable Terminal Configuration via Bash Scripts"
color:  teal
width:   6
height:  1
date:   2017-08-31 23:30:00 -0700
categories: bash
---

<br>

Well, my Day 3 project was a bit of a flop. But I learned some new things!

<br>

Here's the repo with the code I worked on:
[https://github.com/grahamplace/gimmedatzsh](https://github.com/grahamplace/gimmedatzsh)

<br>

Bash has always been one of those things that I know I need to get better at, so
  today I thought I would work with it a bit. Having returned to school from Opendoor,
  I shifted back to primarily using my personal laptop, whereas in SF I was spending the
  majority of my day on my work computer.

<br>

My work computer was configured exactly to my liking — I discovered the oh-my-zsh/iTerm2 combo
  while working at Opendoor, and loved it from day 1. Back at school, I
  realized that my personal machine's terminal was stuck in 2016, while my work machine's terminal was
  already in 3017.

<br>

I had also recently chatted with a friend of mine about shells and terminal configurations, so I thought it would be cool to work on creating an easily run, easily shared way to configure my terminal. That way, I could switch laptops or set up a friend with only a few commands.

<br>

I got close, but overall it didn't come out exactly as intended. I read up on the
  different ways to install zsh and oh-my-zsh, and wrote a couple of Bash scripts
  that install those two and set zsh as the user's default shell.

<br>

Customizing the terminal via oh-my-zsh was a bit more challenging. My hope was to
  write into the .zshrc file from the Bash script. I learned some new things about
  regular expressions + sed and writing into files, but ultimately the customization
  step proved to be too much for me last night.

<br>

It's tricky because you want the script to be flexible enough to keep any _current_
  customizations in the user's .zshrc file. For example, I had been using zsh and
  rbenv on my personal machine, I just hadn't customized everything to the extent
  that I had on my other laptop. When I started trying to update the .zshrc file,
  I realized I had accidentally removed

`export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"` and `eval "$(rbenv init -)"` from my .zshrc
  and temporarily ruined my ability to use Ruby.

<br>

In the spirit of learning, I think I'm going to try again tomorrow! I think there
  may be a better solution that leverages the oh-my-zsh customizations and leaves
  the .zshrc file alone. Tomorrow is a new day!
