---
layout: post
title:  "Day 16: Baby's First Assembly"
color:  orange
width:   5
height:  1
date:   2017-09-13 23:10:00 -0700
categories: assembly
---

<br>

Another packed day, another "Shipping my Schoolwork" kind of commit.

<br>

I ended up spending a ton of time writing code today, so I'm not too torn up about it!
  I put the finishing touches of my scanner from yesterday and submitted it. With
  that out of the way, I knocked out a project for my Computer Organization course.

<br>

After a few weeks of studying the theory that underpins how a CPU works, we finally
  started digging in — this project was our first assignment using MIPS assembly.
  It was pretty straightforward — just moving data around, implementing a basic bubble sort,
  and writing the output — but it was a great way to ramp up using MIPS. It certainly
  takes a different kind of thinking than the Ruby/Java I've been using lately!

<br>

Writing this project in assembly was tedious, but rewarding. It strikes at the heart
  of why I enjoy programming: you're essentially solving logical puzzles, trying to
  be as clever as possible with a small set of tools at your disposal. Assembly is
  about as close to machine-level as you can get (throwback to my ECE days taking
  circuits and digital logic), so it's stripped down to a very minimal set of things
  you can do — and yet you can solve any problem you could with a high-level language.

<br>

I also can't share this code (the assignment is still active), but I committed
  the project to GitHub to make sure I got my commits for the day in!
