---
layout: post
title:  "Day 9: Marriage Matching and Binary Operations"
color:  orange
width:   6
height:  1
date:   2017-09-06 23:50:00 -0700
categories: java algorithms c
---

<br>

Day 9! Had quite the day in terms of schoolwork — I had a test and a project to complete
  for my Computer Organization course. I did spend a bit of time this morning working
  on my implementation of the Traditional Marriage Algorithm (see [yesterday's post](http://www.graham.place/100Days/java/algorithms/2017/09/05/day-8.html)),
  but I spent roughly 5 hours today cranking out a programming project for school.
  I think the reality of my workload is such that a few of my 100 days will have commits
  consisting of code I write for school.

<br>

Thus, my project today was implementation of binary operations in Java and C, meant to
  mimic the the CPU implementations of these operations. Yep, it was as tedious as it sounds —
  writing out implementations of these operations by hand, bit-by-bit.

<br>

It was nice to get back into C, it's been about a year since I've used it. Some people
  love it, some people hate it. I prefer more abstracted languages (s/o to Ruby!), but I
  do appreciate that C doesn't let you get away with anything hand wavy. We'll see if
  I feel the same way when I start writing MIPS assembly for this course.

<br>

Unfortunately, I can't share my code via a public repo as I'm sure that would violate
  the University of Arizona's Code of Academic Integrity. You'll have to take my word for it, but
  fret not — I can promise you that I'm coding, and more importantly, that I'm learning.
