---
layout: post
title:  "Day 6: Generating a Skills Progress Bar"
color:  blue
width:   4
height:  1
date:   2017-09-03 11:00:00 -0700
categories: html ruby
---

<br>

The theme I'm using for this blog comes with a neat little "Skills" progress bar
  layout that is meant to be used as a static "I am this good at these skills" chart
  on a portfolio site.

<br>

I liked the design of the skills chart, but I wasn't thrilled that it could only be
  generated from a static yaml file. So for Day 6 today, I decided to come up with
  a way to dynamically pull the "skills" data from the markdown files that generate
  the daily posts. That way, I could simply tag each post when I write it, and the
  skills chart will update and reflect my progress.

<br>

This problem has three parts that need to be solved:

1) Read — Parse each post's markdown file for the categories tags we're interested in.

2) Write — Once we've compiled the data from the markdown files, write it in the
  appropriate format in the skills.yml file.

3) Display — Update the front-end code of the blog to include the skills progress bar.

<br>

I unfortunately didn't have a ton of time to code today (I'm camping with some friends
  tonight and heading out soon) so I only shipped the "Read" portion. I have a Ruby
  script that parses the post markdown files and creates a hash that stores each
  category tag, and with it the total number of posts that are tagged with that
  category.

<br>

I'll be updating this more tomorrow, but the file lives here:

[https://github.com/grahamplace/100Days/blob/master/scripts/skills.rb](https://github.com/grahamplace/100Days/blob/master/scripts/skills.rb)
