---
layout: post
title:  "Day 14: Python and Pivots"
color:  blue
width:   6
height:  1
date:   2017-09-11 23:52:00 -0700
categories: python http
---

<br>

Yesterday, I came up with a plan to pull my recently played Spotify tracks onto
  my personal website. Today, I had to pivot away from that plan.

<br>

I realized today that the authentication obstacle would prove to difficult to solve
  when all I have to work with is this static blog, hosted on GitHub pages.
  I have a new plan, however!

<br>

The new plan is to write a python script(s) that can deal with the auth issue server-side,
  and also use the Spotify API to update the tracks in a public playlist owned by
  my account. The advantage of this approach is that the static front-end of this blog
  can easily embed the public playlist with no authorization challenges, leaving the
  logic of "getting recently played tracks into said playlist" to the scripts hidden
  away on a server somewhere.

<br>

Essentially, every ~60 minutes or so, a python script will run and do three main things:

1) Pull my recently played tracks from the Spotify API.

2) Empty the playlist.

3) Add however many of my recent tracks I want to the playlist.

<br>

And thus, the next time someone loads the page, the playlist will have my recently played tracks.

<br>

Unfortunately, I didn't quite get that far today. Today was one of _those days_,
  involving lots of banging my head against a wall while trying to sort through
  Homebrew + python + pipenv issues.

<br>

By the end, I got a simple "Hello World" python script deployed via Heroku, so I'm all
  set up to get some real work done tomorrow!
